okay so here's another one we're going
to look at all this footage in it will
take a minute or two to Professor Mike
Benton recently came across the remains
of a dinosaur that was so exquisitely
well preserved that feathers as well as
bones had fossilized incredibly those
feathers can tell us the color of a
dinosaur that lived 125 million years
ago came back say ten years ago would
you ever even imagine that you would
have been able to tell what color any
dinosaurs would have been no I mean I
think about time I and everybody else
would have said that is one of the
things we'll will never know using a
scanning electron microscope might can
find clues about the pigmentation of
these ancient fossil feathers and if we
just have a look at this we're a quite
high magnification that's 9,000 times
all of these sausage shapes there are
mulana somes and in a living feather
there will be full of the chemical
melanin which which in fact gives the
color and these sausage shaped ones are
a sure indicator of a particular kind of
melanin which is the one that gives a
black or dark brown color so in some
cases like this the the field of view is
completely packed with the sausage
shaped one so we know this must have
been intensely black if there were more
loosely space we would know it was a
paler color maybe dark brown or even
gray so you think just really the
presence or absence of the black pigment
that you're able to ascertain well the
wonderful thing is that there is another
form of melanin that gives a ginger
color and so and it is packaged in a
different shape of mallanna so not this
kind of cigar shaped or sausage shaped
one but a spherical one little ball
close it up get the vacuum going a
sample taken from a different fossils
shows what the structures that carry
this ginger pigment look like well
that's entirely different this surface
looks as they've taken a melon baller
and scoop out lots of
little spherical hollows say what color
would these mallanna scenes have made
this is definitely ginger and if you
look at a piece of ginger hair from a
mammal or a human being that's what you
see also it was it relatively easy to
compare your dinosaur feathers with
what's already known about the feathers
of living birds to get that comparison
to knew what colors you were looking at
here we can put the specimens in one
after the other
there's the modern one there's the
fossil spot the difference no difference
at all and who on earth would have
thought a dinosaur is a bit close to a
bird but there we are you know it's kind
of proved in the skeletons and now if
you like proved and we anatomy of the
feathers